In this video I'll explain the firewall services that are provided by NSX.
Will take some time to look at the different security features that NSX provides.
We'll look at the NSX edge firewall and compare it to the NSX distributed firewall.
We'll look at different types of rules that we can create and the actions that those rules can take.
And we'll also look at that apology of an NSX network and go through some packet walks and show you
how these packets are processed by these firewall tools as they work their way through our network.
And let's start out by first off explaining a few key concepts that you need to know.
Now number one the NSX edge is a stateful firewall.
So what does that mean.
What is a stateful firewall.
Well let's take a look in an example.
So here we see three virtual machines.
VM one two in three.
And let's say that VM one generates some traffic that is flowing out to the external network and that
traffic matches a permit rule in the ANOSIKE such.
So the NSX edge is going to allow that traffic through because it matches this permit We're all and
the other thing that the NSX will do is it'll update the connections state in the NSX edge to reflect
that that connection has been opened.
And now the traffic passes through and hits the destination.
So the NSX edge is tracking the fact that VM one has opened some connection with some external device.
And if response traffic comes back from that external device the NSX edge will allow that response traffic
through.
Based on that connection state so the edge doesn't require an explicit entry saying this return traffic
is allowed.
It dynamically allows that traffic back in because it's a stateful firewall based on the connections
state.
It will allow return traffic through the distributed firewall is a firewall that is sent out to the
kernel modules of all of our ESX I hosts It's a host based firewall and it's what gives us the ability
to have micro segmentation.
So for example in this diagram we have two virtual machines V.M. one and VM two.
And let's say that VM one wants to establish a connection to virtual machine to write.
Maybe it wants to ping it maybe it wants to open a web page on it whatever.
So VM one generates a packet and that's bound for VM too.
And if we're using a physical firewall that packet needs to flow over a physical adapter a VM neck hit
a physical switch hit the physical firewall get processed by the firewall ruleset come back hit the
physical switch flow through the VM neck yet again and arrive at virtual machine too.
These are two vim's that might be on the same exact ESX host as each other.
And our packet has gone through multiple physical devices in order to hit that firewall policy.
This is referred to as Herr penning sending traffic over the physical network unnecessarily and then
its coming right back in to hit that destination via.
So this is not really the most efficient possible way to deal with enforcement firewalls.
Now let's look at an example of east west firewalling using the NSX hatch.
And this is not what the NSX had just built for the NSX edge for a north south traffic.
That means traffic that's coming into or leaving my NSX domain.
But I can use that as a firewall between virtual machines if I want.
So again here we see a packet coming from VM one it's bound for VM to and my NSX edge firewall is running
on some other ESX I host.
While that packet needs to flow through a physical adapter over a physical switch back in through another
physical adapter to hit that NSX Aggi virtual appliance and then the firewall rules set will be enforced
on that packet and the pagen now has to travel to the actual destination.
So here goes over a physical VM neck over a physical switch back into the original host over a VM neck.
And now it hits its destination.
And this is why the NSX edge is not ideal for EastWest firewalling because we still have the same hair
pinnings situation that we had with a physical firewall appliance.
Now how is the distributed firewall different well with a distributed firewall.
That traffic doesn't have to leave the host at all.
The distributed firewall runs as a kernel module in our ESX host.
It's deployed by NSX manager during the host preparation process and runs as a demon called V S F W
D on each ESX host.
So because the firewall runs as a kernel module right within the ESX host we can enforce firewall rules
at the virtual Nic level of our virtual machine.
That's how the distributed firewall works.
It actually analyzes those packets as they leave the VM before they even had a logical switch.
So now I can create my firewall rules anywhere I want.
I can enforce rules between virtual machines that are even on the same logical switches each other and
that's what gives me that feature of micro segmentation that's so desirable with NSX.
I can create a firewall rule anywhere I want.
It's really as if a firewall has been bolted to the virtual neck of every VM and every VM plugs directly
into a firewall.
And from there they plug in the switches so it's extremely powerful.
Now it's also important to know that these firewall rules are pushed out to the hosts by an ex manager
directly.
My NSX controller cluster and user world agent are not involved with the firewall at all.
So let's walk through an example of how the distributed firewall works.
Now here in our diagram we see two ESX hosts on the left we've got ESX eyes or one on the right ESX
0 2 and running on host ESX 0 1.
I have a VM called VM one running on ESX Isar or two.
I've got a VM called VM too and these two virtual machines are plugged in to different logical switches
and so let's say that VM one wants to establish a connection with VM too maybe it generates a ping that's
bound for VM to and VM 2 is on a different network then V.M. one.
So my virtual machine is going to send that packet to its default gateway which is the distributed logical
router.
But prior to ever hitting the logical switch or the distributed logical router the distributed firewall
will analyze that packet immediately.
As soon as that packet is transmitted by V.M. one it's immediately inspected by the distributed firewall.
And if it matches the firewall rules and is permitted it'll hit the logical switch and flow to the distributed
logical router which is the default gateway for that virtual machine.
And all of this is done prior to any sort of VX land cancellation.
So at this point the distributor a logical router will route it towards the end.
Five thousand two.
That's where the destination virtual machine resides.
So the packet gets routed it gets the xplain encapsulated and it flows over my physical underly network
and when it reaches host ESX high 0 2 it's dropped on to the appropriate logical switch which is VNA
5000 to and at that point the Wii tap the capsule eight's it rips away all of those VX land hatters
and now my packet is on the logical switch and is destined for V.M. to before it can go into VM to though
before it can be received by V.M. to it is again analyzed by the distributed firewall.
Looking at the set of rules that are specifically applied to VM to and again this is happening at the
virtual neck level of VM to.
And if that traffic is allowed and it reaches my virtual machine so that's the role of the distributed
firewall and how it works at the virtual next level.
And that's a very important aspect to keep in mind here because that's really what opens up all these
possibilities to us.
You know I could have 10 different venoms unlogical switch Vienne five thousand one all on the same
host and I can have different specific firewall policies for each of those victims.
I can enforce policies between those victims even though they're connected to the same switch.
Right this is the really groundbreaking part of the security aspects of sex called micro segmentation.